I am Miekichi Suzuki born in Hiroshima in
1882. I am a novelist and an author for many
children books. I am a literary person and
considered the Father of Japanese Children’s
Literature.
In my teenage times I showed distinguishable
writing skills. When I was “15” years
old, I published my first works under the
name “The Emperor's Birthday” and "Longing
for My Late Mother". The later work has strong
relation with my mother who passed away when
I was 11 years old. In “1901” I entered
Tokyo university to study English Literature.
Later I taught English in many high schools
and universities across japan earning the
respect of my workers and supervisors.
Some of my major works includes: “The Plover”
and “The Mulberry” that are milestones
in the Japanese literature of that time. In
“1918”, I had my first daughter, Suzu.
At the same year I launched the children’s
literature magazine that’s called, Akai
Tori or The Red Bird, which gave birth to
the first songs and fairy tales for children
in Japan. I guided Japanese teachers on how
to write composition and free verse in order
to develop children’s creativity and also
introduced classic children’s stories from
overseas. Akai Tori become a famous magazine
and many sharp writers contributed to it through
masterpieces such as The Spider's Thread and
A Bunch of Grapes beside other children’s
songs and plays.
In “1935” I suffered from asthma but I
continued my passion in contributing to the
Japanese children literature. In “1936”
my health condition worsened and I passed
away that year at the age of 53 from lung
cancer. The Akai Tori continued to be published
for 18 years after my death which continued
to have great impact on the educational world,
where the movement for education that respected
children was growing.
In “1948”, the Miekichi Suzuki Award was
established. It awarded outstanding essays
and poems by children throughout Japan. I
hope my work has influenced children creativity
and helped creating generations that contribute
to inspire Japan and the world. I will forever
dream, simply as I did in my boyhood, and
therefore suffer only a little.